skills/architecture/preserving-productive-tensions/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: Preserving Productive Tensions
description: Recognize when disagreements reveal valuable context, preserve multiple valid approaches instead of forcing premature resolution
when_to_use: When multiple approaches have legitimate trade-offs. When stakeholders have conflicting valid priorities. When context determines which approach is better. During design when you're tempted to ask "which is best?" but both are good. When tensions reveal flexibility needs.
version: 1.0.0
---

# Preserving Productive Tensions

## Overview

Some tensions aren't problems to solve - they're valuable information to preserve. When multiple approaches are genuinely valid in different contexts, forcing a choice destroys flexibility.

**Core principle:** Preserve tensions that reveal context-dependence. Force resolution only when necessary.

## Recognizing Productive Tensions

**A tension is productive when:**
- Both approaches optimize for different valid priorities (cost vs latency, simplicity vs features)
- The "better" choice depends on deployment context, not technical superiority
- Different users/deployments would choose differently
- The trade-off is real and won't disappear with clever engineering
- Stakeholders have conflicting valid concerns

**A tension needs resolution when:**
- Implementation cost of preserving both is prohibitive
- The approaches fundamentally conflict (can't coexist)
- There's clear technical superiority for this specific use case
- It's a one-way door (choice locks architecture)
- Preserving both adds complexity without value

## Preservation Patterns

### Pattern 1: Configuration
Make the choice configurable rather than baked into architecture:

```python
class Config:
    mode: Literal["optimize_cost", "optimize_latency"]
    # Each mode gets clean, simple implementation
```

**When to use:** Both approaches are architecturally compatible, switching is runtime decision

### Pattern 2: Parallel Implementations
Maintain both as separate clean modules with shared contract:

```python
# processor/batch.py - optimizes for cost
# processor/stream.py - optimizes for latency
# Both implement: def process(data) -> Result
```

**When to use:** Approaches diverge significantly, but share same interface

### Pattern 3: Documented Trade-off
Capture the tension explicitly in documentation/decision records:

```markdown
## Unresolved Tension: Authentication Strategy

**Option A: JWT** - Stateless, scales easily, but token revocation is hard
**Option B: Sessions** - Easy revocation, but requires shared state

**Why unresolved:** Different deployments need different trade-offs
**Decision deferred to:** Deployment configuration
**Review trigger:** If 80% of deployments choose one option
```

**When to use:** Can't preserve both in code, but need to document the choice was deliberate

## Red Flags - You're Forcing Resolution

- Asking "which is best?" when both are valid
- "We need to pick one" without explaining why
- Choosing based on your preference vs user context
- Resolving tensions to "make progress" when preserving them IS progress
- Forcing consensus when diversity is valuable

**All of these mean: STOP. Consider preserving the tension.**

## When to Force Resolution

**You SHOULD force resolution when:**

1. **Implementation cost is prohibitive**
   - Building/maintaining both would slow development significantly
   - Team doesn't have bandwidth for parallel approaches

2. **Fundamental conflict**
   - Approaches make contradictory architectural assumptions
   - Can't cleanly separate concerns

3. **Clear technical superiority**
   - One approach is objectively better for this specific context
   - Not "I prefer X" but "X solves our constraints, Y doesn't"

4. **One-way door**
   - Choice locks us into an architecture
   - Migration between options would be expensive

5. **Simplicity requires choice**
   - Preserving both genuinely adds complexity
   - YAGNI: Don't build both if we only need one

**Ask explicitly:** "Should I pick one, or preserve both as options?"

## Documentation Format

When preserving tensions, document clearly:

```markdown
## Tension: [Name]

**Context:** [Why this tension exists]

**Option A:** [Approach]
- Optimizes for: [Priority]
- Trade-off: [Cost]
- Best when: [Context]

**Option B:** [Approach]
- Optimizes for: [Different priority]
- Trade-off: [Different cost]
- Best when: [Different context]

**Preservation strategy:** [Configuration/Parallel/Documented]

**Resolution trigger:** [Conditions that would force choosing one]
```

## Examples

### Productive Tension (Preserve)
"Should we optimize for cost or latency?"
- **Answer:** Make it configurable - different deployments need different trade-offs

### Technical Decision (Resolve)
"Should we use SSE or WebSockets?"
- **Answer:** SSE - we only need one-way communication, simpler implementation

### Business Decision (Defer)
"Should we support offline mode?"
- **Answer:** Don't preserve both - ask stakeholder to decide based on user needs

## Remember

- Tensions between valid priorities are features, not bugs
- Premature consensus destroys valuable flexibility
- Configuration > forced choice (when reasonable)
- Document trade-offs explicitly
- Resolution is okay when justified

Commit message:

refactor: split emergent-patterns into focused problem-solving skills
**Restructure:**
- Split detecting-emergent-patterns (216 lines) into 5 focused skills (~60 lines each)
- Move tracing-lineages to skills/research/ (better category fit)
- Create skills/problem-solving/ category

**New problem-solving skills:**
- simplification-cascades: Find one insight that eliminates multiple components
- collision-zone-thinking: Force unrelated concepts together for breakthroughs
- meta-pattern-recognition: Spot patterns in 3+ domains
- inversion-exercise: Flip assumptions to reveal alternatives
- scale-game: Test at extremes to find fundamental limits
- when-stuck: Dispatch skill that maps stuck-symptoms to techniques

**Improvements:**
- Symptom-based when_to_use (what you'd actually think/feel)
- Quick reference tables for rapid scanning
- Pattern-based triggers (not exact phrase matching)
- Cross-references from brainstorming for discoverability

Each skill now: scannable in 30 seconds, applicable immediately, focused on one technique.

skills/architecture/preserving-productive-tensions/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: Preserving Productive Tensions
description: Recognize when disagreements reveal valuable context, preserve multiple valid approaches instead of forcing premature resolution
when_to_use: Going back and forth between options. Both approaches seem equally good. Keep changing your mind. About to ask "which is better?" but sense both optimize for different things. Stakeholders want conflicting things (both valid).
version: 1.0.0
---

# Preserving Productive Tensions

## Overview

Some tensions aren't problems to solve - they're valuable information to preserve. When multiple approaches are genuinely valid in different contexts, forcing a choice destroys flexibility.

**Core principle:** Preserve tensions that reveal context-dependence. Force resolution only when necessary.

## Recognizing Productive Tensions

**A tension is productive when:**
- Both approaches optimize for different valid priorities (cost vs latency, simplicity vs features)
- The "better" choice depends on deployment context, not technical superiority
- Different users/deployments would choose differently
- The trade-off is real and won't disappear with clever engineering
- Stakeholders have conflicting valid concerns

**A tension needs resolution when:**
- Implementation cost of preserving both is prohibitive
- The approaches fundamentally conflict (can't coexist)
- There's clear technical superiority for this specific use case
- It's a one-way door (choice locks architecture)
- Preserving both adds complexity without value

## Preservation Patterns

### Pattern 1: Configuration
Make the choice configurable rather than baked into architecture:

```python
class Config:
    mode: Literal["optimize_cost", "optimize_latency"]
    # Each mode gets clean, simple implementation
```

**When to use:** Both approaches are architecturally compatible, switching is runtime decision

### Pattern 2: Parallel Implementations
Maintain both as separate clean modules with shared contract:

```python
# processor/batch.py - optimizes for cost
# processor/stream.py - optimizes for latency
# Both implement: def process(data) -> Result
```

**When to use:** Approaches diverge significantly, but share same interface

### Pattern 3: Documented Trade-off
Capture the tension explicitly in documentation/decision records:

```markdown
## Unresolved Tension: Authentication Strategy

**Option A: JWT** - Stateless, scales easily, but token revocation is hard
**Option B: Sessions** - Easy revocation, but requires shared state

**Why unresolved:** Different deployments need different trade-offs
**Decision deferred to:** Deployment configuration
**Review trigger:** If 80% of deployments choose one option
```

**When to use:** Can't preserve both in code, but need to document the choice was deliberate

## Red Flags - You're Forcing Resolution

- Asking "which is best?" when both are valid
- "We need to pick one" without explaining why
- Choosing based on your preference vs user context
- Resolving tensions to "make progress" when preserving them IS progress
- Forcing consensus when diversity is valuable

**All of these mean: STOP. Consider preserving the tension.**

## When to Force Resolution

**You SHOULD force resolution when:**

1. **Implementation cost is prohibitive**
   - Building/maintaining both would slow development significantly
   - Team doesn't have bandwidth for parallel approaches

2. **Fundamental conflict**
   - Approaches make contradictory architectural assumptions
   - Can't cleanly separate concerns

3. **Clear technical superiority**
   - One approach is objectively better for this specific context
   - Not "I prefer X" but "X solves our constraints, Y doesn't"

4. **One-way door**
   - Choice locks us into an architecture
   - Migration between options would be expensive

5. **Simplicity requires choice**
   - Preserving both genuinely adds complexity
   - YAGNI: Don't build both if we only need one

**Ask explicitly:** "Should I pick one, or preserve both as options?"

## Documentation Format

When preserving tensions, document clearly:

```markdown
## Tension: [Name]

**Context:** [Why this tension exists]

**Option A:** [Approach]
- Optimizes for: [Priority]
- Trade-off: [Cost]
- Best when: [Context]

**Option B:** [Approach]
- Optimizes for: [Different priority]
- Trade-off: [Different cost]
- Best when: [Different context]

**Preservation strategy:** [Configuration/Parallel/Documented]

**Resolution trigger:** [Conditions that would force choosing one]
```

## Examples

### Productive Tension (Preserve)
"Should we optimize for cost or latency?"
- **Answer:** Make it configurable - different deployments need different trade-offs

### Technical Decision (Resolve)
"Should we use SSE or WebSockets?"
- **Answer:** SSE - we only need one-way communication, simpler implementation

### Business Decision (Defer)
"Should we support offline mode?"
- **Answer:** Don't preserve both - ask stakeholder to decide based on user needs

## Remember

- Tensions between valid priorities are features, not bugs
- Premature consensus destroys valuable flexibility
- Configuration > forced choice (when reasonable)
- Document trade-offs explicitly
- Resolution is okay when justified
